Affine space and vanishing loci.
- $\mathbb A^n = \mathbb C^n$. An affine subspace is a subset of the form $v + U$ where $U$ is a linear subspace of $\mathbb C^n$.
- $\mathbb C[\mathbf X]$ is Noetherian and a UFD.
- An affine variety in $\mathbb A^n$ is a set of the form $\mathbb V(S) = \{P \in \mathbb A^n \mid \forall f \in S, f(P) = 0\}$.
- $\mathbb V(S) = \mathbb V(I)$ where $I$ is the ideal generated by $S$.
- $\mathbb V(S) = \mathbb V(\{f_1, \dots, f_n\})$ for some finite set of $f_i \in \mathbb C[\mathbf X]$ as the ideal $S$ generates is finitely generated.

Correspondence of varieties and generating sets.
- $S \subseteq T$ implies $\mathbb V(T) \subseteq \mathbb V(S)$.
- $\mathbb V(0) = \mathbb A^n$.
- $\mathbb V(\mathbb C[\mathbf X]) = \mathbb V(\lambda) = \varnothing$ for $\lambda \neq 0$.
- $\bigcap_{j \in I} \mathbb V(I_j) = \mathbb V(\sum_{j \in I} I_j)$ for any set $I$.
- $\mathbb V(I) \cup \mathbb V(J) = \mathbb V(I \cap J)$.

Irreducibility.
- A variety is irreducible if it cannot be written as the union of two strictly smaller varieties.
- Every affine variety if a finite union of irreducibles, contradict Noetherian.
- A minimal decomposition of a variety is a representation as a finite union where no two subvarieties have a strict containment between them.
- Minimal decompositions are unique up to ordering: compare two irreducible components by intersecting.

Topology.
- The Zariski topology has varieties as closed sets.
- The Euclidean topology is generated by open balls as the open sets.
- The Zariski topology on $\mathbb A^1$ is the cofinite topology.
- $\mathbb A^2 \not\simeq \mathbb A^1 \times \mathbb A^1$.

Ideals from zero sets.
- **Weak form of Hilbert's Nullstellensatz**. Every maximal ideal in $\mathbb C[\mathbf X]$ has the form $(X_1 - a_1, \dots, X_n - a_n)$ for $a_i \in \mathbb C$. Moreover, if $I$ is a non-unit ideal, $\mathbb V(I) \neq \varnothing$.
- The set of functions vanishing on a variety forms an ideal.
- $S \subseteq I(\mathbb V(S))$.
- $V = \mathbb V(I(V))$.
- $V = W$ iff $I(V) = I(W)$.
- $V \subseteq W$ iff $I(W) \subseteq I(V)$.
- $V$ irreducible iff $I(V)$ prime. Geometrically, the ideal is not prime iff there are two functions where the product is zero on $V$ but are individually not zero on all of $V$.