Projective space.
- The projectivisation of a complex vector space is the set of lines through the origin.
- $S^{2n+1} \twoheadrightarrow \mathbb P^n$ so $\mathbb P^n$ is compact..
- $H_j = \mathbb V(X_j)$ is the $j$th coordinate hyperplane.
- $U_j = H_j^c$ is the $j$th standard affine patch.
- $U_j \simeq \mathbb A^n$ naturally.
- The $U_j$ form an open cover of $\mathbb P^n$.

Projective varieties.
- A homogeneous polynomial of degree $d$ is a finite sum of terms (nonzero multiples of monomials) of degree $d$.
- $f = \sum_{i=0}^\infty f_{[i]}$ is the decomposition into homogeneous parts, $\deg f_{[i]} = i$.
- Vanishing loci of homogeneous polynomials are well-defined.
- An ideal is homogeneous if it can be generated by homogeneous polynomials (possibly of different degrees).
- An ideal $I \trianglelefteq \mathbb C[\mathbf X]$ is homogeneous if and only if each element $f \in I$ has all of its homogeneous parts $f_{[i]}$ also in $I$.
- Vanishing loci of homogeneous ideals are well-defined; these are called projective varieties.
- The Segre surface is $\mathbb V(X_0 X_3 - X_1 X_2) = \mathrm{Im}\, f$ where $f \colon \mathbb C^2 \times \mathbb C^2 \to \mathbb C^4$ is the outer product $(v,w) \mapsto vw^T$.

The following descriptions of the topology on $\mathbb P^n$ are equivalent (no proof):
- the quotient of the subspace of the Zariski topology on $\mathbb C^{n+1}$;
- closed iff a projective variety;
- the gluing topology on affine patches.
So intersections of projective varieties with affine patches give affine varieties.

Homogenisation and projective closure.
- The homogenisation of a polynomial $f$ of total degree $d$ is $f^h(X_0, \dots, X_n) = X_0^d f\left(\frac{X_1}{X_0}, \dots, \frac{X_n}{X_0}\right)$, homogeneous of degree $d$.
- The homogenisation of an ideal is the ideal generated by the homogenisation of its elements (NOT the homogenisation of its generators, unless principal).
- The projective closure of an affine variety is $\mathbb V(I(V)^h)$.
- The topological closure of an affine variety in an affine patch coincides with the projective closure.
- Intersecting with an affine patch and taking the projective closure doesn't always give the same result (e.g. if the variety is entirely in the hyperplane at infinity).
- $Q \subseteq \mathbb P^n$ given by a homogeneous quadratic of rank $r$ can be written $\mathbb V(X_0^2 + \dots + X_r^2)$ after a change of coordinates.
- $I^h(V)$ is the ideal generated by homogeneous polynomials vanishing on $V$.
- **Projective Nullstellensatz**. If $\mathbb V(I) = \varnothing$, then $(X_0^m, \dots, X_n^m) \subseteq I$. If $\mathbb V(I) \neq \varnothing$, then $I^h(\mathbb V(I)) = \sqrt I$.
- Complements of proper closed subvarieties of irreducible projective varieties are dense.

Rational functions.
- $\mathbb C(V)$ is the space of functions $F/G$ homogeneous of the same degree, modulo $F_1 G_2 - F_2 G_1 \in I^h(V)$.
- $\mathbb C(V)/\mathbb C$ is finite as a field extension (not finitely generated as a $\mathbb C$-module or $\mathbb C$-algebra), generated by $X_1/X_0, \dots, X_n/X_0$.
- $\mathbb C(V_0) = \mathbb C(V)$ if $V$ irreducible and not contained in $H_0$.
- $\varphi$ is regular at a point $P$ if $\varphi$ can be expressed as a ratio of homogeneous polynomials of same degree with nonzero denominator at $P$.
- $\mathcal O_{V,P}$ is the set of $\varphi \in \mathbb C(V)$ regular at $P$, a local ring.
- There is a natural isomorphism $\mathcal O_{V,P} \to \mathcal O_{V_0, P}$ respecting the isomorphism $\mathbb C(V) \to \mathbb C(V_0)$ if $V \not\subseteq H_0$.

Rational maps.
- Homogeneous $F_0, \dots, F_m \in \mathbb C[X_0, \dots, X_n]$ of degree $d$ not all contained in $I^h(V)$ determine a map of sets $V \setminus \bigcap_j \mathbb V(F_j) \to \mathbb P^n$.
- A rational map $V \dashrightarrow \mathbb P^m$ is an equivalence class of such tuples under the equivalence relation $F_i G_j - G_i F_j \in I^h(V)$.
- Regular points of rational maps $\varphi$ are points where $\varphi$ has a representative with not all polynomials evaluating to zero.
- The domain of a rational map is its set of regular points. A rational map is a morphism if it is defined everywhere on $V$; we write $V \to \mathbb P^m$ instead of $V \dashrightarrow \mathbb P^m$.
- An isomorphism is a morphism with a two-sided inverse morphism.
- If $f \in \mathbb C[X_0, X_1, X_2]$ is irreducible and homogeneous of degree 2, $\mathbb V(f) \simeq \mathbb P^1$; only one conic in two-dimensional projective space.
- Cremona transformation: $\kappa(X_0 : X_1 : X_2) = (X_1 X_2 : X_0 X_2 : X_0 X_1)$
- Veronese embedding: $\nu_d \colon \mathbb P^n \to \mathbb P^m$ is given by $(\mathbf a) \mapsto (F_0(\mathbf a), \dots, F_m(\mathbf a))$ where the $F_i$ are teh degree $d$ monomials, and $m = \binom{n+d}{d} - 1$. Then $\mathrm{Im}\,\nu_d$ is a projective variety isomorphic to $\mathbb P^n$.
- Segre embedding: $\sigma_{m,n}((x_i),(y_j)) = (x_i y_j)$ is a bijection between $\mathbb P^m \times \mathbb P^n$ and the projective variety $\mathbb V(I) \subseteq \mathbb P^{mn+m+n}$, $I$ generated by polynomials of the form $Z_{ij} Z_{pq} - Z_{iq} Z_{pj}$.
- Products of projective varieties are naturally projective varieties under the Segre embedding.

Composition of rational maps.
- A rational map is dominant if its image $\varphi(\mathrm{dom}\,\varphi)$ is Zariski dense in its codomain.
- If $\varphi$ is dominant, $\psi \circ \varphi$ is well-defined for any rational map $\psi \colon W \dashrightarrow Z$.
- Varieties are birational if they have rational maps whose compositions are equivalent to the identity map.
- Isomorphisms are birational.
- The circle is birational to the line.
- The Cremona map is birational, as it is self-inverse.
- (difficult proof) Varieties are birational iff their function fields are isomorphic (as fields).