(Skipping proofs in this section.)

Tangent spaces.
- For $V = \mathbb V(f)$, $T^{\mathrm{aff}}_{V,P} = \mathbb V(g); g = \sum_{i=1}^n (\frac{\partial f}{\partial X_i}(P))(X_i - a_i)$.
- For $V = \mathbb V(F)$, $T^{\mathrm{proj}}_{V,P} = \mathbb V(G); G = \sum_{i=1}^n (\frac{\partial F}{\partial X_i}(P))X_i$.
- **Euler's formula**. $F(X_0, \dots, X_n) = \sum_{i=0}^n \frac{1}{\deg f} X_i \frac{\partial F}{\partial X_i}$.
- $T^{\mathrm{proj}}_{V,P} \cap U_0 = T^{\mathrm{aff}}_{V_0,P}$. if $P \in V_0$.
- Smooth if not all partial derivatives $\frac{\partial F}{\partial X_i}$ vanish, equivalently, tangent space is $n$-dimensional.
- The set of singular points on a nonempty irreducible projective hypersurface is a proper Zariski closed subset. Hence the set of smooth points is dense.
- For $V \subseteq \mathbb A^n$, $T_{V,P}$ is the set of points in $\mathbb C^n$ orthogonal to the linearisations of $f \in I(V)$. This is a vector subspace of $\mathbb C^n$, not any set in $\mathbb A^n$.
- For $V \subseteq \mathbb P^n$, $T_{V,P} = T_{V_j,P}$ for $V_j = V \cap U_j \neq \varnothing$ (independent of the choice of $j$).
- (! why linear? the $f_i$ are rational) The linearisation of a rational map $\varphi$ at $P$ in an affine patch is $\mathrm{d}\varphi_P(v) = (\sum_{i=1}^n v_i \frac{\partial f_j}{\partial X_i}(P))_j$, where $f_j = \frac{F_j}{F_0}$, mapping $T_{V,P} \to \mathbb C^m$.
- $\mathrm{d}\varphi_P(T_{V,P}) \subseteq T_{W,Q}$.
- $\mathrm{d}\varphi$ depends only on $\varphi$ and not the representatives.
- $\mathrm{d}(\psi \circ \varphi)_P = \mathrm{d}\psi_{\varphi(P)} \circ \mathrm{d}\psi_P$ when $\varphi(P) \in \mathrm{dom}\, \psi$.
- If $\varphi$ is birational and $\varphi^{-1}$ is regular at $\varphi(P)$, then $\mathrm{d}\varphi_P$ is an isomorphism $T_{V,P} \simeq T_{W,Q}$.
- $T_{V,P} = T_{V_j,P}$ is independent of the choice of $j$ since they are isomorphic; there is a birational map $p_{ij} \colon U_i \dashrightarrow U_j$ which is the identity on $U_i \cap U_j$.

Smooth and singular points.
- The dimension of an irreducible variety is the minimum dimension of a tangent space.
- Smooth points of irreducible varieties are those which have minimum tangent space dimension. Otherwise, the point is singular.
- The dimension of a reducible variety is the maximum dimension of an irreducible component.
- The set of smooth points of an irreducible (affine/projective) variety is a nonempty open subset.
- Irreducible birational curves have the same dimension.

Transcendental elements.
- Let $K/\mathbb C$ be finitely generated. Then we can form $K/K_0/\mathbb C$ where $K_0$ is a pure transcendental field over $\mathbb C$, and $K/K_0$ is finite so $K = K_0(y)$ by primitive element theorem.
- Let $K = \mathbb C(x_1, \dots, x_n)$ where the $x_i$ are algebraically independent. Let $x_{n+1}$ be algebraic over $K$. (!) Let $I$ be the ideal of polynomials in $n+1$ variables vanishing on $x_1, \dots, x_n, x_{n+1}$. Then $I$ is principal and generated by an irreducible element $f$. Moreover, if $f$ contains the variable $X_i$, then $\{x_1, \dots, \hat x_i, \dots, x_n, x_{n+1}\}$ is algebraically independent.
- Any irreducible variety is birational to a hypersurface.
- Let $W$ be an irreducible variety, and let $V = \mathbb V(f) \subseteq \mathbb A^n$ be an affine hypersurface birational to $W$. Then $\dim W = n-1$.
- (!) The dimension of $W$ is the transcendence degree of $\mathbb C(W)$.