- A $\sigma$-algebra has $\varnothing$ and is closed under complement and countable union.
- A ring has $\varnothing$ and is closed under binary union and relative complement. Think: constructive binary operations (L&ST axiom of empty set, axiom of separation, axiom of union).
- An algebra has $\varnothing$ and is closed under binary union and total complement. Algebras are rings.
- A $\pi$-system has $\varnothing$ and is closed under binary intersection. Think: $\pi$ looks like $\cap$.
- A $d$-system has $E$ and is closed under relative complement and increasing countable union. Think: $d$ for Dynkin.

Once we have these constructions, we can define
- A set with a $\sigma$-algebra is a measurable space.
- A set function on $\varnothing \in \mathcal A \subseteq \mathcal P(E)$ is a map $\mu \colon \mathcal A \to [0,\infty]$ mapping $\varnothing \mapsto 0$.
- A measure is a countably additive set function.
- A null set has measure zero.

We can do a few things with $\sigma$-algebras.
- $\sigma$-algebra generated by a set $\mathcal A$: take the intersection of all $\sigma$-algebras containing it.
- $\sigma$-algebra generated by a topology is the Borel $\sigma$-algebra $\mathcal B(E) = \sigma(\tau)$. Elements are the Borel sets. A measure on $\mathcal B(E)$ is a Borel measure on $E$. A Radon measure is a Borel measure that assigns finite measure to compact sets (compact sets are closed and hence measurable).
- Disjointification of countable union: $\bigcup_n A_n = \bigcup_n B_n$ where $B_n = A_n \setminus \bigcup_{m < n} A_m$ are disjoint.
- A $\pi$-system that is also a $d$-system is a $\sigma$-algebra.

> [!theorem]
> **Carathéodory's extension theorem**. Let $\mu$ be a countably additive set function on a ring $\mathcal A$ over $E$. Then there exists $\mu^\star$ on $\sigma(\mathcal A)$ that agrees with $\mu$. Proof non-examinable.

> [!theorem]
> **Dynkin's lemma**. Let $\mathcal A$ be a $\pi$-system. Then any $d$-system that contains $\mathcal A$ also contains $\sigma(\mathcal A)$.

The idea behind a lot of P&M proofs is to prove your result on basic inputs ($C_\infty$ functions, simple functions) and extend it as far as possible. Dynkin's lemma lets you extend results from $\pi$-systems to the $\sigma$-algebras they generate.

- **Uniqueness of extension theorem**. Two finite ($\sigma$-finite, even) measures that coincide on a generating $\pi$-system coincide everywhere. Proof uses Dynkin. So Carathéodory gives the only possible extension of a measure if the ring in question is a $\pi$-system.
- There is a unique Borel measure on $\mathbb R$ that assigns measure $x$ to all intervals $(a,b]$ with $b-a = x$; this is called the Lebesgue measure. Obtained by Carathéodory's extension theorem, unique by above.
- The Lebesgue measure is translation invariant, as it is unique.
- There is a non-measurable set of reals. Take the set of representatives of $\sim$ on $(0,1]$, where $x \sim y$ if $x - y \in \mathbb Q$; it can't be measurable as the (countable) sum of its translations by rational numbers (mod 1) must measure 1.

We can now define probability spaces.
- A measure space with total measure 1 is a probability space. Write $E = \Omega, \mathcal E = \mathcal F, \mu = \mathbb P$.
- Events are independent if for all finite index sets $J$, probability commutes with product: $\mathbb P \circ \bigcap_J = \prod_J \circ \mathbb P$.
- $\sigma$-algebras are independent if all of their events are independent ($\mathcal A_i$ independent iff $A_i$ independent for all choices of event $A_i \in \mathcal A_i$).
- If $\mathbb P(A_1 \cap A_2) = \mathbb P(A_1) \mathbb P(A_2)$ for all $A_1 \in \mathcal A_1, A_2 \in \mathcal A_2$, then $\sigma(\mathcal A_1), \sigma(\mathcal A_2)$ are independent. Proof: uniqueness of extension.

Limit superior and limit inferior.
- $\limsup_n A_n$ = $A_n$ infinitely often; $\liminf_n A_n = A_n$ eventually.
- **Borel-Cantelli lemmas**.
	1. If $\sum_n \mathbb P(A_n) < \infty$, $A_n$ almost never happens infinitely often.
	2. If $\sum_n \mathbb P(A_n) = \infty$, $A_n$ almost surely happens infinitely often (as long as the $A_n$ are independent).