- The characteristic of a field is the least positive integer $p$ with $p \cdot 1 = 0$, or 0 if such an integer does not exist.
- The prime subfield is the smallest subfield, isomorphic to $\mathbb F_p$ or $\mathbb Q$ depending on characteristic.
- Field homomorphisms are injections as fields have no proper ideals.

Field extensions.
- L/K is an extension if $K \subseteq L$ or there is an embedding $K \to L$.
- $K[x] = \{p(x) \mid p \in K[T]\}$, and so on.
- L/K makes L a K-vector space. Write $\dim_K L = [L:K]$. Say L/K is finite if $[L:K]$ finite.
- L/K is quadratic, cubic... if $[L:K] = 2, 3, \dots$
- Finite fields have prime power cardinality (finite extension of prime subfield).

> [!theorem]
> **Tower law**. Let M/L/K. Then M/K finite iff M/L, L/K finite. If so, $[M:L][L:K] = [M:K]$.

Instead prove:

> [!theorem]
> Let L/K and V an L-vector space. Then V is a K-vector space and $\dim_K V = [L:K] \dim_L V$ (with the obvious meaning if any of the expressions is infinite).

- Let $G \subseteq K^\times$ where G finite. Then G cyclic (structure theorem, check root count of $T^m - 1$).
- A primitive root mod p is a generator for $\mathbb F_p^\times$.
- The Frobenius endomorphism is $\varphi_p(x) = x^p$.
- In characteristic $p$, we have $(x+y)^p = x^p + y^p$.

Algebraic elements.
- $x \in L/K$ is algebraic if $f \in K[T], f(x) = 0$. If not, $x$ is transcendental.
- $\mathrm{ev}_x \colon K[T] \to L$ (ring hom) evaluates a polynomial at $x$.
- $\ker \mathrm{ev}_x$ is an ideal in $K[T]$ and hence is principal, generated by a unique monic minimal polynomial.

> [!theorem]
> TFAE:
> 1. $x$ algebraic over $K$
> 2. $[K(x):K]$ finite
> 3. $K[x]$ is finite dimensional as a $K$-vector space
> 4. $K[x] = K(x)$
> 5. $K[x]$ is a field
> 
> and if any of these hold, $\deg x = [K(x):K]$.

- $x_1, \dots, x_n$ algebraic over $K$ iff $L=K(x_1, \dots, x_n)$ finite over $K$. If so, every element of $L$ is algebraic over $K$ (tower law).
- In particular, algebraicity is closed under arithmetic operations.
- Let $p>3$ prime, and let $z = e^{2\pi i/p}$ and $x = 2\cos\frac{2\pi}{p}$, then $[\mathbb Q(z):\mathbb Q(x)]=2$ and $z$ has degree $p-1$ (irreducibility of cyclotomic polynomial).
- L/K algebraic if all elements algebraic over K. M/L, L/K algebraic iff M/K algebraic. Finite extensions are algebraic.

Ruler and compass.
- Ruler and compass constructions iteratively expand the set of known points by solving quadratics in the coords of known points.
- A field is constructible if it is a finite tower of quadratic extensions over $\mathbb Q$.
- $x$ constructible iff $\mathbb Q(x)$ constructible.
- $x$ constructible implies $x$ algebraic with $\deg x$ a power of 2.