Recall that if $F$ is finite of char $p$,
- $|F| = p^n$ and $[F:\mathbb F_p] = n$;
- $F^\times$ cyclic of order $p^n - 1$;
- Frobenius automorphism $\varphi_p$ is an automorphism of $F$.

Have the following new results.
- There is a finite field with $q = p^n$ elements.
- Any such field is a splitting field of $f = T^q - T$ over $\mathbb F_p$. Think: all nonzero elements have multiplicative order dividing $p^n - 1$, and these are $q$ roots so $f$ is exactly $\prod_{x \in F} (T - x)$.
- Since splitting fields are unique up to $\mathbb F_p$-isomorphism (= isomorphism), two finite fields of the same order are isomorphic.

Can study Galois theory of finite fields.
- $\mathbb F_{p^n}/\mathbb F_p$ is Galois, and $G = \langle \varphi_p \rangle \simeq C_n$, as it is the splitting field of the separable polynomial $T^q - T$ and apply Galois correspondence to the subgroup $\langle \varphi_p \rangle$.
- $\mathbb F_{p^n}$ has a unique subfield of order $p^m$ for all $m \mid n$, and these are exactly the subfields (Galois correspondence).
- $m \mid n$ implies $\mathbb F_{p^m} \subseteq \mathbb F_{p^n}$ is the fixed field of $\varphi_p^m$.
- Let $f \in \mathbb F_p[T]$ be separable and $n = \deg f$, and $n_1, \dots, n_r$ are the degrees of the irreducible factors of $f$. Then $\mathrm{Gal}(f/\mathbb F_p)$ is cyclic and generated by an element of cycle type $(n_1, \dots, n_r)$. So $|\mathrm{Gal}(f/\mathbb F_p)|$ is the LCM of the $n_i$.

Reduction modulo $p$.
- Let $f \in \mathbb Z[T]$ be monic, separable, $\deg f = n$, $p$ prime. Suppose that $\overline f \in \mathbb F_p[T]$ is also separable. Then $\mathrm{Gal}(\overline f/\mathbb F_p) \leq \mathrm{Gal}(f/\mathbb Q)$ as subgroups of $S_n$ (proof nonexaminable).
- Hence if $\overline f= g_1, \dots, g_r$ is a factorisation into irreducibles mod $p$, $\mathrm{Gal}(f/\mathbb Q)$ contains an element of cycle type $(n_1, \dots, n_r)$ where $n_i = \deg g_i$.